# NN from scratch

What is all this about?

Well, I learned through my experience that I have my way of learning, which is through building things from scratch. When I try to learn things the usual ways, sit and listen or watch a person teaching, or through reading books, I only understand things superficially. Only through buildings things the ways I learn. I have to work with NN for a while now, I know how to use to model a problem, I know how to train the model using data and how to optimize the parameters of the model to minimize the error. But I was to be left alone in a desert and asked to build a NN, I wouldn't be able to do so. If humanity has vanished during WW III and I was extremely lucky to be among the few survivors and some only shout "hey, you said you are a machine learning engineer, could you build a NN from scratch" I will be in big trouble? Of course, the benefits of being able to build NN from scratch extends to the practical aspects as well because the practitioners are required to optimize an increasing number of parameters that it becomes so difficult to do so without knowing the very small details of NN.

Having done the motivation part, now I will turn to the "how". The plan is to use only NumPy to first understand matrix multiplication as one of the basic cornerstones for NN. Indeed knowing the shape of the weight matrix  `w`. the input matrix `X`, the response vector `y`, the loss vector, which is `f(X@w - y)`, the gradient vector `dl/dw` Next, I will build an intuition of the loss function as another important building block. Once that is cleared, the next natural extension is the optimization of this loss function. First, I will start again with building an intuition why of the gradient direction of the steepest descent, then I will calculate the gradient using two methods: First, the numerical one which uses the limits. Then, the second method is the analytical solution. Extensive documentation to the point of excessiveness will be used to make things clearer for my future self and others who wish to benefit from this work. Finally, all of this will be performed using object-oriented programming by building classes and functions.